well Dr Sal Alam is a nursing director
at the European Gaza hospital he joins
us on Skype from Khan yunas good to have
you with us sir so first of all talk us
through the situation in hospitals now
we understand that Services have been
reduced you're crowded with people
seeking
shelter is there any sense of security
when hospitals are continuously being
attacked we are encountering lots of
problems including the uh Relentless
bombardments at night and the injured
who arrive in the daytime so we work day
and night at night no home in the
daytime we receive casualties this
doesn't mean that we don't receive
casual
during the night they
continuously arrive in our to our
Hospitals now the problem
is um Mobility to arrive to hospitals
our um can I jump in sorry to interrupt
you but I want to know when you say you
receive casualties what do you do with
them do you have enough beds to put
casualties
currently we don't have a single vacant
bed in the European hospital and some
patients are waiting in the reception
since few days and until now we haven't
been able to provide uh beds in the
hospital do you have enough medical
equipment medicine to to treat
people
we lack everything we have overe
exhaustion and fatigue of our staff
members they are working continuously
for the past two months we have fuel
crisis as fuel in hospitals usually uh
suffices for a short period of time up
to 5 days we have lack of surgical
supply Li particularly
orthopedy we are unable to transfer in
the injured outside the Gaza Strip many
of such injured they require Advanced
Health
Care we have also burn
injuries the some burn victims they
sustain 70 to
80% burn wounds the congestion in
hospitals which is approximately four
times uh the capacity of such hospitals
the environment of the hospitals have
become non conducive for them as one a
place for one patient we have to um we
have to shove two or three patients in
the same place as we speak tonight how
many patients are you worried might die
simply because you don't have the
support the medical equipment the
medicine you need to treat
[Music]
them I'll just give you a a figure a
statistic in the European Hospital there
are more than
85 patients who have amputation injuries
be it upper limbs or lower limbs
majority of such patients
had they received a Better Health Care
they wouldn't have been
amputated now we might if this continues
as it is we might try to choose between
a a patient to continues and a patient
who doesn't continue receiving treatment
the fatigue and the lack of beds and
places we might reach to a point where a
patient would die in front of your eyes
unable to provide any help not because
you can't not because you are unable but
because you can do to lack of supplies
doctor we know that the South Kan Yunis
has come under Israeli
strikes are you worried for your own
safety no what what brings you to come
back to hospital each day given the risk
which you must personally face
[Music]
we doctors we have a mission and we need
to serve our people as much as we can I
can't be isolated from my people from my
family where my family um an extended
family resided were bombarded however
this is a mission to my people I haven't
been home for many days I don't ask
about them it's not that we are
heartless but because we have a mission
to serve our people and to provide them
with such assistance this is our duty
towards the people of our
land thank you very much for sharing
your experiences with us Dr Al hams